In the usecase folder there are a set of files which together tell a user story based on some common examples.
After building the openidm-zip project these files are copied and organized in an appropriate folder structure,
each usecase folder contains the files that are needed for that certain use case sample.

All the samples assume a certain initial setup of managed users in OpenIDM.
The users are organized the following way:
- there are 20 ordinary users: user.0 ... user.19 where 

    - user.0 .. user.4 belong to Human Resources having user.0 as Manager,
       user.0 .. user.3 employees and user.4 contractor

    - user.5 .. user.9 belong to Production Planning having user.5 as Manager,
       user.5 .. user.8 employees and user.9 contractor

    - user.10 .. user.14 belong to Sales & Distribution having user.10 as Manager,
       user.10 .. user.13 employees and user.14 contractor

    - user.15 .. user.19 belong to Treasury & Payments having user.15 as Manager,
       user.15 .. user.18 employees and user.19 contractor

Furthermore we have the following special users:
- hradmin: user representing the human interaction of the HR department
- systemadmin: user representing the human interaction of the populated systems (“Business” and “Project”)
- superadmin: user representing the manager of the managers

List of use cases

Usecase1 - Initial reconciliation
    In this step we import the users from OpenDJ to OpenIDM using reconciliation.

    To prepare to run the sample, download OpenDJ directory server from
    http://forgerock.org/opendj.html. Install OpenDJ using QuickSetup:

        * Use "password" as the password for cn=Directory Manager.
        * Import samples/usecase/data/hr_data.ldif during installation.

    1. Start OpenIDM with the configuration for usecase1.

    $ cd /path/to/openidm
    $ ./startup.sh -p samples/usecase/usecase1

    2. Run reconciliation.

    $ curl -u openidm-admin:openidm-admin -X POST "http://localhost:8080/openidm/recon?_action=recon&mapping=systemHRAccounts_managedUser"

    3. Query the managed users created by reconciliation

    $ curl -u openidm-admin:openidm-admin "http://localhost:8080/openidm/managed/user?_queryId=query-all-ids"
    
    There should be 23 users created.

Usecase 2 - New user onboarding
    In this step we simulate an HR employee starting the onboarding process for an employee
    and approval step of the manager.

    If we want to use email notifications as part of the process make the following changes:
    - External email service of OpenIDM has to be configured using the following file:
        samples/usecase/usecase2/conf/external.email.json
        Update the smtp settings in this file before starting the workflow.
    - Change the notification email properties in the workflow definition file:
        samples/usecase/usecase2/workflow/newUserCreate.bpmn20.xml

        Original:
        emailParams = [_from : 'usecasetest@forgerock.com', _to : 'notification@example.com', 
                    _subject : 'Use Case Test Notification', _type : 'text/plain', 
                    _body : 'The requested user ' + userName + ' was successfully created']
        Change the _from and _to fields to contain valid email addresses.
    
    1. Start OpenIDM with the configuration for usecase2.

        $ cd /path/to/openidm
        $ ./startup.sh -p samples/usecase/usecase2

    2. Log in to the UI as user.1 (this user belongs to HR department, default password is 'Passw0rd')

    3. Select the User Onboarding Process by clicking on it.

    4. Fill the fields of the form presented by the UI. The fields marked with x are mandatory.
        - Department field:
            By selecting one of the four departments we define which department the new user
            will belong to. Based on this the workflow will select the possible candidate assignees
            for the manager approval user task: it will be either superadmin (as manager of everyone)
            or the manager of the selected department (see description above).
            example: if HR is selected the manager candidates will be user.0 and superadmin.
        - User Type field:
            if the User Type field is Employee then the user will have access to an account called "Business".
                This is represented on the managed user in OpenIDM repository by having the following attribute on
                the managed user:
                    accounts : [ "Business"]
            if the User Type is Contractor then the new user won't have any accounts associated to it in
                managed user representation in OpenIDM.

        - Send Email Notification field:
            If 'No' is selected for this field then no email notifications will be sent.
            Notifications will be added to the OpenIDM repository which will appear on UI.

    5. Start the workflow by clicking on Start button.

    6. Log out and log in as the manager of the department selected in the initial start form
        example: if HR was selected then log in as user.0

    7. Click on the Onboarding approval task appearing on UI as task in the group queue
        and assign the user task to user.0 (select 'Assign it to me'). The task appears now in 'My tasks'.

    8. Click on the Task and then on the 'Details' button.
        - Start Date field:
            filling this field results in the user being created and adding the startDate property
            to the user. Furthermore, the user status will be 'inactive'.
            The field is optional, it will be used by TaskScanner to trigger sunrise workflow.
        - End Date field:
            filling this field results in the user being created and adding the startDate property
            to the user.
            The field is optional, it will be used by TaskScanner to trigger sunset workflow.
        - Manager field:
            Selecting yes will add 'title' field to the new managed user with the value 'manager'.
        - Decision field:
            Selecting 'Reject' terminates the workflow and sends a notification to the start user
            of the workflow.
       Complete the task by clicking on 'Complete' button.

    9. If 'Accept' was selected then the user is created as a managed user in OpenIDM.
        Two OpenIDM notifications are created about this event: one for the start user and one for the
        new user. Those are visible on the UI after login with the appropriate user.

        If email notification was selected then one email is sent to the user configured at the
        beginning of the use case sample.
    
    10. Sunrise workflow
        If the sunrise date of the new user was set then the user was created with inactive account status.
        To trigger sunrise activate the sunrise task scanner (it's inactive by default):
            samples/usecase/usecase2/conf/schedule-taskscan_sunrise.json
            Change: "enabled" : false
            to "enabled" : true
        The scan will run every minute and checks for users having sunrise date before
        current date plus one day.
        Once the scan is triggered it picks the new user, starts the sunrise workflow on it:
            - changes the account status to active
            - adds an OpenIDM notification to the new user (visible when logging in to OpenIDM UI).

    11. Sunset workflow
        If the sunset date of the new user was set then sunset workflow can be triggered
        To trigger sunset activate the sunset task scanner (it's inactive by default):
            samples/usecase/usecase2/conf/schedule-taskscan_sunset.json
            Change: "enabled" : false
            to "enabled" : true
        The scan will run every minute and checks for users having sunset date before
        current date plus one day.
        Once the scan is triggered it picks the new user, starts the sunset workflow on it:
            - a user task is assigned to the manager of the user (e.g. in our sample the assignee is user.0)
            - Log in to OpenIDM UI with user.0 and select the task in 'My tasks'
            - Decision field:
                - Accept termination: the user's account status will be set to inactive and hradmin
                    receives an OpenIDM notification about it.
                - Modify date: the sunset date of the user will be changed and the manager
                    of the user receives an OpenIDM notification about it (user.0 in our sample).

Usecase 3 - User access request
    In this step we simulate a user starting an access request and having 2-level approval for it.

    If we want to use email notifications as part of the process make the following changes:
    - External email service of OpenIDM has to be configured using the following file:
        samples/usecase/usecase3/conf/external.email.json
        Update the smtp settings in this file before starting the workflow.
    - Change the notification email properties in the workflow definition file:
        samples/usecase/usecase3/workflow/accessRequest.bpmn20.xml

        Original:
        emailParams = [_from : 'usecasetest@forgerock.com', _to : 'notification@example.com', 
                    _subject : 'Use Case Test Notification', _type : 'text/plain', _body : 'The access request was accepted']
        Change the _from and _to fields to contain valid email addresses.
        Note that there are 2 occurences of the emailParams, change both.
    
    1. Start OpenIDM with the configuration for usecase3.

        $ cd /path/to/openidm
        $ ./startup.sh -p samples/usecase/usecase3

    2. Log in to the UI as user.1 (this user belongs to HR department, default password is 'Passw0rd')

    3. Select the Access Request Process by clicking on it and start the workflow.

    4. A new task appears in 'My tasks', click on it and select 'Details'.
        - Access to Business system field: the value is reflecting the current value in OpenIDM database
        - Access to Project system field: the value is reflecting the current value in OpenIDM database
        - Send Email Notification field:
            If 'No' is selected for this field then no email notifications will be sent.
            Notifications will be added to the OpenIDM repository which will appear on UI.
        - Request field: Cancel terminates the process and does not change anything.
            Accept starts a user task assigned to the manager of the user (user.0 in this sample).

        Click on Complete after selecting the values.

    5. Log out and log in as the manager of the start user (user.0 in this sample)

    6. Click on the User Access Request Approval task appearing on UI as task in the group queue
        and assign the user task to user.0 (select 'Assign it to me'). The task appears now in 'My tasks'.

    7. Click on the task and then on the 'Details' button.
        The two fields showing the required access rights are modifiable by the manager. 
        Complete the task by clicking on 'Complete' button after selecting the Decision.
        The decision can be
        - Reject: the start user (in our sample user.1) receives a notification about the denial. An OpenIDM 
            notification is created about this event which is visible on the UI after log in with the appropriate user.
            If email notification was selected then one email will be sent to the user configured at the
            beginning of the use case sample.
        - Accept:
            Accept starts a user task assigned to systemadmin.

    8. If the manager accepted log out and log in as systemadmin (default password is "Passw0rd").

    9. Click on the User Access Request Approval task appearing on UI in 'My tasks' and then on the 'Details' button.
        The two fields showing the required access rights are modifiable by the systemadmin. 
        Complete the task by clicking on 'Complete' button after selecting the Decision.
        The request can be
        - Reject: the start user (in our sample user.1) receives a notification about the denial. An OpenIDM 
            notification is created about this event which is visible on the UI after log in with the appropriate user.
            If email notification was selected then one email will be sent to the user configured at the
            beginning of the use case sample.
        - Accept: user.1 is updated in managed users table of OpenIDM reflecting the requested changes.
            An OpenIDM notification is created about this event which is visible on the UI after login with the appropriate user.
            If email notification was selected then one email will be sent to the user configured at the
            beginning of the use case sample.

    In this sample there is an escalation step attached to the manager approval task. If the manager does not complete
    the user task within 10 minutes then a new user task is created and assigned to superadmin. It has the same user interface
    as the one assigned to the manager of the user and has the same functionalities. If the superadmin 
    completes this task then the execution is passed to the administrator approval (systemadmin).